# Lionheart

## Introduction

For the elves of wildspace, no name is more respected and honored. Humans see Lionheart as a simple military base; the mere headquarters of the Elvish Navy. The dwarves see it as a hopeless dream of holding a vast and unwieldy fleet together. The scro see it as a target. None know the true nature of this, the most powerful of elvish strongholds.

Lionheart is more than a simple military base. Indeed, the name has been applied to a succession of such bases. To the elves, Lionheart is the keystone to holding their people together. It is the glue that unites the scattered elvish colonies together into a single, cohesive nation that has kept the elves on a dozen worlds from extinction. It is also a political center, where various elvish kingdoms can settle their disputes without resorting to violence. Indeed, Lionheart to the elves is the means for them to hold back the encroachment of other races on their sovereign territories. It is the nexus point of the elvish people, allowing communication and trade to continue in a hostile galaxy.

It is from this station that the supreme commander of the Elvish Navy reigns over her fleet. She directs the fleet in times of war and peace from her office in the crystalline towers of Lionheart. Advising her is a cabinet of the seven highest-ranking admirals in the fleet. Each of these admirals is given charge of overseeing a particular region of space consisting of several dozen systems. They keep her advised of current events in space and keep the local fleets in line.

A council of representatives from every elvish nation is also found on Lionheart. This advisory board is responsible for keeping elvish nations from going to war with each other and concentrating on their true foes, such as drow and scro. This council is plagued by political intrigue, blackmail, and back-stabbing (both figurative and literal). At times of war, this council simply gives the Grand Admiral all the power she wants or needs.

Lionheart also boasts one of the greatest libraries in Known Space, holding the vast accumulated knowledge of the elvish people. No port has more accurate or complete star charts, nor is there any place better equipped to accurately project fleet movements across a hundred star systems. Matching this incredible resource is a vast collection of magical items and spell casters. No where in all of Known Space will one find a greater treasure trove of magic. Some whisper that there is enough magic on Lionheart to shatter whole worlds. These rumors may just be that: rumors.

In some ways, Lionheart more closely resembles a small city rather than a citadel. It's vast size and huge population put it on par with many cities of wildspace. Such a large population is needed, however, to effectively run a fleet that spans across a hundred spheres or more. Dock laborers work at a feverish pace to keep up with the comings and goings of ships, and scribes race throughout the base delivering messages. It is a hectic base where work is fast and furious, much to the shock of newcomers. The normally relaxed pace of the elves is replaced with a flurry of activity that is normally only seen in the dwarvish race. Of course, security is always tight, but does not interfere with the workings of Lionheart. Somehow, throughout all this confusion, the Fleet gets run and the elves remain the dominant power in space.

> ***(Ed. Notes) Keeping with the idea of the elves of the Rainbow Sea being a splinter branch of the Aeldari that was lost after the raise of Slaanesh and the Fall of the Aeldari Empire, about 30.000 years ago (~7.000 years in the Warhammmer chronology, but time can pass differently in those two universes), Lionheart, in the eyes of Harlock, is a miniature [Craftworld](https://warhammer40k.fandom.com/wiki/Craftworld). The elves remember very little, if anything at all, of their story before the exodus and they have adapted to the new realities of this universe.***

## Overview

From a distance, Lionheart is no different than any other elvish base. It appears as a great ring of seven elvish armadas linked together with a number of towers on their backs and protected by a curtain wall consisting of the wings of the craft. It's not until one draws closer that they realize just how big Lionheart really is. The whole station dwarves all other elvish bases. It stretches almost 2000' in diameter, with each individual armada having an individual diameter of almost 100'. The thick wings form a curtain wall as solid as any made of stone. It rises over 100' above the gravity plane of Lionheart to a huge, circular deck. The lower parts of the wings dip well-below the gravity plane to tangle together in a circular shape. From below, Lionheart appears as a great flower in space; quite deceptive, given its great military might. The towers that rise within the protective curtain wall are the abodes of admirals, aides, and diplomats.

Less impressive than the towers or the wall is the docking area below it. The tail sections of the armadas have been converted into docks and warehouses for ships of the Fleet. This area is the busiest of the whole station. Ships from across the whole of Known Space arrive and depart on an hourly basis. In addition to that traffic, the elves maintain a number of ships on special duty at Lionheart. Some are guardian ships, protecting the base against attack. Others are messengers while others stand ready for special duties. For good reason the dock laborers of Lionheart are among the best paid in the Spheres.

The lowest level of Lionheart is given over to a vast garden. This huge, circular greenhouse provides enough air to keep everyone on the station alive and comfortable. The plants inside this garden are drawn from a hundred worlds. Some are nearly priceless in their beauty and rarity. Many elves spend their off-time in this garden in quiet meditation. It is an island of tranquility in a sea of activity.

## History

Many humans are surprised to learn that the current Lionheart station is only five hundred years old. What they fail to realize is that there have been several Lionhearts in the past. Some where destroyed, while others were abandoned. The current Lionheart is the first to be a free-floating station, and is the largest and most powerful of the line. Many elves say that this will be the last of the Lionheart stations; it is so well-built and so well-defended that it will never fall. Some sages darkly whisper that the elves don't have the resources to build another; if this one falls, the Fleet falls with it.

The first Lionheart station was built over twenty thousand years ago, during a time of much strife between the elvish peoples. Lloth and other foul demons were corrupting many elves, turning them against each other. Civil wars and mass murders were common. It was a Dark Age for the elves. The Fleet, for the first time, saw a need for a place to gather their resources and fight back the incursion of darkness. Thus, the first Lionheart station was constructed. From there, the Fleet launched many campaigns against their dark brethren, driving them from Known Space. It served well for at least ten thousand years, but was destroyed in the final years of that dark war. Dark elf saboteurs infiltrated the base and worked dark magic. They opened a portal to the Abyss, unleashing a horde of monsters on the unsuspecting base. Within a few years, not even the asteroid that it was built upon remained. All record to its location has been lost in modern times.

The second station was built well after the drow-elf war was over. The Elvish Navy, almost completely destroyed during the Dark Wars (the collective name of the elf/drow wars across a dozen worlds), started to rebuild. Operating out of their homeworld, the elves began the slow process of building new warships. Much of their magical knowledge had been lost, and the elves were forced to start over in a number of technologies. The great behemoths of the Dark Wars were forever lost, and the elves could barely hold more than a hundred ships together in a single, organized navy. At the same time, this was a time of growth for the elves; old homelands were destroyed and displaced people were forced to find new ones. On a number of worlds, the elves were blessed with fertility by their gods and their populations grew. Yet the fear of another Dark War was great, and the Elvish Navy was needed to again open trade and communication routes through to the dozens of elvish worlds. Thus Lionheart II was commissioned, both to serve as a military outpost and to be a major port of call for merchant ships.

Lionheart II was located in a small sphere with a few minor worlds and many asteroids. Though not an important population center, this sphere (which became known as Lionspace after the base it held) was on many important trade routes. It served as a central hub from which the Navy could reopen communication and trade routes. A fully mature starfly plant, as big as a small moon, was chosen as the site of Lionheart II. For the next three thousand years, Lionheart II served as a major trading center. The sphere became heavily populated by elves (and remains so to this day), but Lionspace started drifting from major flow rivers. It's importance as a military headquarters waned, and Lionheart II was abandoned as the Fleet's headquarters. Instead, it's military role was significantly cut back and it's mercantile role took over. During it's time, Lionheart II served well and the Elvish Navy increased its size by well over tenfold.

After Lionspace began its drift from popular flow lanes, the Elvish Navy decided to relocate to another, more centralized sphere. Gatespace, on several flow rivers, became the Navy's primary choice. Like Lionspace, Gatespace held no major worlds other than three uninhabited gas giants. The most habitable place in the sphere was a large asteroid chain orbiting one of the gas giants. Lionheart III was built at the center of the chain, on a small asteroid. The elves built vast docks that rival the size of those of Bral and constructed a massive castle inside the largest crater. The walls of the crater were fortified into walls of solid stone. Delicate towers rose into the night sky, fragile looking but as sturdy as those twice as broad. Great chambers were bored into the asteroid, opening up vast barracks and interior dry docks and hangers. Other asteroids in the chain were cultivated and were soon producing the food the station needed.

With Lionheart III located within it, Gatespace was rapidly becoming another elf-dominated sphere like Lionspace. The period of elvish expansion ended, however, almost five thousand years ago. The thri-kreen, the mantis-like race of spacefairers, launched a series of religious crusades against virtually every other species in wildspace. While many races suffered under kreen assaults, the elves bore the brunt of the attacks. Elvish flesh was a favorite delicacy to the Kreen, and the elves viciously defended their religious beliefs. In an attempt to break the elves, the Kreen launched an all-out assault on Gatespace. For the better part of a decade, the Kreen sent fleet after fleet into the sphere in an effort to eradicate the elves. Eventually, they succeeded. Gatespace fell to the relentless assaults, and Lionheart III was destroyed. Yet, the assault was equally devastating to the Kreen. In their assaults on Gatespace, they lost well over half their fleet and were too badly spread out to take advantage of their victory. The elves quickly rallied with their allies and moved against the Kreen, driving them from Known Space once and for all.

The fourth station to bare the Lionheart name was located in Spiralspace, then virtually uninhabited and empty. The elves chose a minor asteroid within the sphere to be the site of their base, which would serve them throughout the Unhuman War and the Great Hunt afterwards. Attacked at least twice during that war, the base never fell. Yet, this station would prove to be the shortest-lived of all of the stations. While it proved a valuable stronghold during the Unhuman War, its facilities were far too inadequate to support and command the Elvish Fleet. This was realized near the end of the War. Individual captains disobeyed orders and even admirals tried to break away from the Fleet to form their own little empires. Combined with the encroachment in the sphere by other races, Grand Admiral Leafbower decided to abandon Lionheart in favor of building the greatest base of all time. The remnants of the fourth Lionheart base can still be found on the Rock of Bral.

### The Fifth Lionheart Station
The fifth Lionheart, the modern station, is the largest and the first station to be a free-floating space station. To the surprise of many, the station was not constructed from the hulls of Armada warships. At the time, these ships were too rare and precious for such a venture. The elves had but a handful, and those were needed to guard against a recursion of the goblin-kin power. Instead, the elves choose a still-developing starfly plant as the basic building block of their base. This starfly plant was fairly mature, with leaves stretching out for a mile. A plant this big would be needed for what the elves had in mind. Once the plant was secured, cleared of any nasty space monsters, and magically purified, it was ready for the next step in Admiral Leafbower's plan.

The greatest High Mages the Fleet had in its service at the time were gathered together for this grand undertaking. Serving as Center was Seljuril, perhaps one of the greatest High Mages that had ever served the Fleet. The four High Mages that surrounded her were legends in their own right. All were very powerful yet fiercely loyal to the Fleet and to their people. Surrounding them were a circle of nine more High Mages, each easily as powerful as an Archmage. Normal circumstances would not have brought such individuals together was it not for Admiral Leafbower's dream of the greatest base of all time. The Crown Jewel of the Fleet, he described it. Fortunately, they had the wisdom to see his vision, and eagerly joined the venture.

The first step in constructing the Crown Jewel was the casting of the Elaorman, or the Construction, ritual. This ritual was vital to turning the vast, twisted space plant into an elvish stronghold. This ritual took seven days to accomplish, as the elves worked together to twist and form the plant into the shape of a ring of armadas. While the base took on the basic shape and form of a typical elvish outpost, its size would dwarf them all. The larger leaves and branches folded and melded into the shapes of armadas, while the smaller leaves joined together and grew into a vast curtain wall. Crystal towers arose inside the curtain wall, delicate spires reaching for the nearby stars. At the conclusion of the spell, the plant solidified, becoming as hard as stone. The entire base was petrified, making it a strong and stable construction. Exhausted, the High Magi collapsed into deep slumbers from which they could not be awaken for two weeks. The first step of the plan was complete, and after they awoke, the High Magi left for secret retreats of their making to meditate for a year and replenish their powers. During the absence of the High Magi, the other elves made the base ready for the second stage. They also started making the base livable by furnishing barracks, mess halls, and the like.

Two years later, the High Magi again gathered to cast the second of their rituals. Their energies had been restored and they were ready for the next stage. This time, they chose the N'Maernthor, or Hidden Homeland, ritual. The N'Maernthor ritual was not as complex as the Elaorman ritual, and required less of their energy to cast. Even so, it took four days to successfully complete the ritual, leaving the High Magi exhausted. For the hundreds of elves also participating in the ritual, the four days of dancing and lending their energies to the High Magi left them sore and tired. Most fell into deep reverie, and could not be aroused for days. Luckily, a vast fleet from the Elvish Nation stood watch over the station, protecting it from harm. The magic of the ritual enwrapped the base in an illusionary starfield, making the base appear as nothing more than part of the distant space. Effectively, the base was invisible; only by approaching within two miles of the place does a ship penetrate its cloak. In modern times, the Fleet would use the N'Maernthor ritual in the creation of cloaked ships. Again, the High Magi returned to their retreats to restore their energies and make ready the third and last phase of construction.

The "final touch" to the Crown Jewel of the Fleet was the laying of a mythal. The High Magi gathered for one last time, combining their magic to lay the final enchantment that would make Lionheart the one and true headquarters of the Fleet. This enchantment was the most complex and the most intricate cast upon the base yet, and the process was long and difficult. To successfully lay the mythal, at least one hundred elves would be required to join the circle, providing power and life force for the budding mythal. Surrounding them, a thousand elves, many family members of the elves in the inner ring, danced and sang, paying tribute to their gods. Seljuril, leading the song, called out to the gods, asking for them to bless the station and grant it the gift of a mythal. The singing and dancing lasted several days, building to a great climax. The elves, exhausted from the nonstop dancing, do not have an accurate account of what happened, but they vaguely recall that a circle of mystical elves, which joined her in dance, surrounded Seljuril. These elves are said to be none other than avatars of the elvish gods. As the dance reached its climax, the avatars burst into pillars of fire that converged upon Seljuril. She took the magical fire into her form and took flight as a bird of fire. Her phoenix form spread its wings over the entire station, enshrouding all of Lionheart with a mythal. The elves again fell into a deep slumber to awake a week later to their new headquarters. Of Seljuril, there was no sign. Yet it is said that she is watching over the station, even to this day. Sometimes, elves catch a fleeting glimpse of a beautiful young elf maiden in the remote parts of the station.

> ***(Ed. Notes) That last part is a parallel to the story of [Mehlendri Silversoul](https://warhammer40k.fandom.com/wiki/Mehlendri_Silversoul) and the development of the the [Infinity Circuit](https://warhammer40k.fandom.com/wiki/Infinity_Circuit) the Eldars use.***

## Defenses

When the Fleet was given its commission thousands of years ago, the Grand Admiral was given the Lion's Heart, a powerful artifact, by Corellon himself. This magical jewel would power many of Lionheart's defenses and give the Grand Admiral the Mandate of Arvandor. So long as he or she held the Heart, they had the blessing of the elvish deities. This Mandate alone has ensured the loyalty of the thousands of elves that have served the Fleet over the ages. Though past Lionheart stations have been destroyed, the Heart has never been lost. It always returned to Corellon, who chose the worthiest elf he could find to serve as the new Grand Admiral. Today, Grand Admiral Lylanna keeps the Heart at the center of Lionheart, entrusted to her most loyal troops, three Baelnorn guardians. The Heart has not been publicly displayed in centuries, and has pass into legend among many elves.

### Magical Defenses: The Mythal
Lionheart's greatest protection is its mythal. It was laid by the five most powerful High Mages the Fleet had at its disposal at the time. Backing them up was a collection of more than one hundred Fleet mages, who provided magical energies to help weave the mythal. Around them danced a thousand or more elves, who called out to the heavens for their deities to bless the station. The Seldarine answered, sending avatars to help with the weaving of the mythal. The price, however, was high. Seljuril's physical form was consumed by the process, and her spirit became that of the mythal. She guards over her creation, protecting the place that she sacrificed so much for. She was allowed to add a single grand power to the mythal. The other four High Magi were allowed to add a single major power each, and the circle of nine casters surrounding them were allowed a single minor power each. In total, the mythal of Lionheart has a single grand power, four major powers, and nine minor ones.

#### The Grand Power
- Lionheart's mythal has but a single grand power: the ability to teleport without error, to another sphere. This power can be used only once a year, as the energy to do so taxes the mythal greatly. This power can only be activated by the Grand Admiral herself, who must order Seljuril to move the station. So long as the moves are infrequent (i.e. less than once every few decades), Seljuril will gladly teleport the station. Usually, the move is done after a longwinded debate over its new location between the various admirals and dispatches are sent out to all fleet admirals, notifying them of the move. Cargo ships are rerouted and supply lines are redirected. Such moves are infrequent because of the logistic nightmare it creates within the Fleet.

    > ***(Ed. Notes) Craftworlds were able to use the [Webway](https://warhammer40k.fandom.com/wiki/Webway) but it required a navigator. And an emergency jump is never without a slew of problems.***

#### The Major Powers
- The major powers of Lionheart were designed to aid in its defense and security. The first of these protections is a defense against teleportation. No one, be it mage, priest, or psionicist, can teleport into Lionheart. All attempts to do so result in the person being bounced, physically, into the Astral Plane. If the person has no means of returning home, they are trapped in that plane until rescue comes. Likewise, the teleport and related spells completely fail to function within the mythal. No one can teleport around Lionheart, nor can the teleport off of the station.

    > ***(Ed. Notes) Unbeknown to Harlcok, the Gith did not  teleport 1 mile behind her, but was bounced to the Astral Plane.***

- The second defense is a magical barrier against any sort of scrying. Spells and psionics fail to penetrate this magical defense. Attempts to use such powers on Lionheart result in a kind of mental snow that gives the caster a headache and reveals no information. Crystal balls, magical mirrors, and like devices fail as well. However, such devices can be used from within the station to communicate with those outside the mythal. Such communication is possible both ways if the device is specially tuned to a magical system of said devices.

- The third defense of Lionheart is a psionic suppression field. All sciences and devotions of the Telepathic and Psychoportive disciplines are completely nullified while the psionicist is within the mythal. Likewise, all spells belonging to the school of mentalism are nullified. This defense cuts down on spies and ensures the privacy of the many admirals and diplomats aboard the station.

    > ***(Ed. Notes) We lost the opportunity to rp that earlier, but now that we are closer to the Mythal/Infinity Circuit/Black Hole, Harlock is not only going to lose access to all her psycic abilities, but physically get weaker and weaker (losing max HP), since being cut off the void is totally alien for the Aeldari.***

- The last major defense of Lionheart is a magical block against any sort of planar intrusion. Astral and ethereal beings cannot enter the mythal, portals cannot be opened, and gate spells fail utterly. Spells that open portals into the Ethereal or Astral Planes will not work on Lionheart, nor will those magical items that create such portals. Items and spells that create extradimensional spaces do work on Lionheart, but Seljuril has the power to shut such items down at will if they endanger the safety of the station.

#### The Minor Powers
Lionheart's mythal has nine minor powers. Two of these powers are left up to the DM to create; the rest are detailed below. Most of these powers aid in the maintenance of the station in the hostile environment of space. Others aid the station in a number of other ways.

- The first minor power of Lionheart is self regeneration. If the station is damaged during a battle, it will automatically start magically repairing itself at the rate of d4+2 hull points per day. This magical regeneration works in addition to any other repairs the elves make upon the station.

- A potent healing field is the second of the mythal's minor powers. All those that spend an extended period of time inside the mythal heals damage. The rate of healing is roughly d6 points of damage per day in addition to the normal healing rate. Lost limbs regenerate over a period of time. Digits are regrown after a weeks exposure to the mythal, while lost limbs usually take a couple of months to regrow. During times of war, elvish wounded are send to Lionheart to heal and recover.

- The third minor power is closely related to the first two. The mythal has a beneficial effect on all plant life inside the station. Hence, all plants on the station grow twice as fast as normal. The mythal provides the plants with the nutrients and energy to survive. Thus, the garden can be indefinitely sustained with minimal maintenance. This benefit also applies to the spaceborn plants that the elves use to build their ships. Any elvish ship on board the station will naturally repair 2 hull points per day, so long as a team of trimmers keep the ship growing into the proper form. The many flitters aboard the station need to be trimmed on a weekly basis, however.

- The fourth minor power provides Lionheart with a supply of fresh air. The mythal magically cleanses the air and keeps it fresh. The air will never degrade below foul, no matter the cause. If the air is somehow degraded, the mythal will revert the air quality back to fresh within one turn.

- To compensate for unusually cold or hot spheres, the mythal provides magical warmth or coolness to keep the station comfortable. Though the station's temperature will fluctuate from sphere to sphere, the temperature will never drop below 40° F nor will it rise above 90° F. This keeps the elves comfortable, no matter where they might go.

- The sixth power of Lionheart's mythal is a magical field that affects fire. Nonmagical fire is quickly extinguished on Lionheart, and magical fire always has half its effects. This power is to protect Lionheart more from the smoke fire produces rather than the damage it causes. Note that the galleys of the station are equipped with magical stoves that provide heat but involve no fire. Thus, hot meals are common.

    > ***(Ed. Notes) Not sure if you have done such in-depth research on Lionheart, or that you ideas just line up so perfectly.***

- Poison is a favored tool of assassins, and is strictly forbidden on Lionheart. To enforce this policy, the mythal nullifies poison completely. While in the mythal, any poison turns to water, permanently. There is no save and the poison is destroyed.

    > ***(Ed. Notes) You might want to play a bit with this and Zhillias.***

### Artillery Defenses
Though Lionheart is heavily protected by magical means, there is always a chance that those defenses will be breached. To deal with ships on a more physical level, Lionheart is equipped with numerous defensive ballista and catapults. Some are magical, most are not. The elves are slowly replacing worn out and old non-magical artillery weapons with magical weapons, but the cost is high. Almost every elf aboard the station is trained in using at least one type of artillery weapon. Thus, all artillery weapons on Lionheart are considered manned by weapon experts and crack crew.

The two largest concentration of artillery weapons is the area surrounding the docks and at the top of the great wall. Each dock area is protected by twenty medium ballista and ten light catapults. These weapons are scattered in blister pods along the outside of the dock area. The hanger doors of each dock is guarded by two heavy catapults, which discourage attacks on those doors. Above each dock area is a weapon platform for two heavy ballista and a heavy catapult. The Great Wall encircling the base is topped by a thick ring platform, 50' across. This platform serves as an emergency landing strip for flitters as well as a gunnery platform for no less than 24 medium ballista and 24 medium catapults. All of the weapons are protected by turrets, which give them a 270-degree arc of fire. No weapon on the platform can be rotated to fire inward toward the towers. In all, over 800 elves are needed just to man these weapons and to keep them supplied with ammunition. Each weapon has a storage bin near it with enough ammunition for the weapon to be fired twenty times. Lionheart has enough ammunition stored in its various cargo holds to fire each weapon a total of one hundred times.

### Akh' Imprius
Aside from the incredible magical defenses of the mythal, Lionheart is guarded by the Akh' Imprius, and small but extremely elite army. These brave men and women are the primary defenders of the station. In total, over 1000 elves, hadozee, and allied creatures are counted as part of the Akh' Imprius, though virtually every elf on Lionheart is armed and knows how to use those weapons. Since Lionheart is a military outpost, no civilians or children are allowed onboard, and everyone on the station is quite capable of defending themselves. The four main types of troops are the hadozee scouts, the eagle-riding skymen, the marines, and the noble knights.

The Hadozee scouts are among the wildest and bravest defenders of the Akh' Imprius. When the elves made their alliance with the hadozee during the Unhuman War, several hadozee were chosen for guard duty at elvish bases. As these guards gained training and experience, they became more and more valuable and highly prized by elvish captains. Hadozee made excellent marines, swooping down on enemy ships en-mass, striking at weapon pits and enemy officers. Because they were most often the first to set foot on enemy ships, the elvish captains dubbed them the "Hadozee Scouts." Two hundred and fifty years ago, Grand Admiral Yelzul decided to commission a unit of the Scouts at Lionheart. Should an enemy ship bypass the magical defenses of Lionheart, the Scouts would swoop down from the curtain wall upon the enemy ship and take the fight straight to the enemy. Some two hundred hadozee are counted among the Scouts deployed at Lionheart, all led by Lieutenant Hhaazon (NG hadozee m F10). All Scouts at Lionheart are fighters of levels 3-7.

> ***(Ed. Notes) Guess which Lieutenant this is :)***

Assisting the Scouts in defending the curtain wall from enemy ships is the Skymen, a unit of giant eagle-riding elves. The Skymen are not numerous, only fifty in all. However, what they lack in numbers they more than make up in fierceness and tenacity. The Skymen favor bows and lances. Their tactics include pelting an enemy ship with arrows, taking out weapon crewmen and spellcasters. If resistance persists, the Skymen swoop in and bring their lances to bare against those still on deck. Anyone hit by their lances must save vs. breath weapon or be blown clear off deck and into the void. Skymen are usually fighters, but some are mages or even rangers. They are led by Lieutenant Luiliel (CG ef R9; Str 17, Cha 16), a fierce and wild-tempered woman. Even Captain Avaliar has problems keeping this woman under control.

The marines form the bulk of the defenders of Lionheart. They number over seven hundred strong, all armed with spears, swords, and bows. The marines man the various weapons found throughout the base and protect Lionheart from boarders from enemy ships. In times of battle they don chain armor and rush to weapon pits to battle their foes. They fight with cold discipline and iron will. All marines on Lionheart are fighters levels 3-8. They are led by Lieutenant Crimson (LG em F/M 12/10 Str 18 (10)), a bladesinger and a powerhouse of an elf. Lt. Crimson is cold in battle; his subordinates say he has vowed never to surrender and never retreat.

The most elite unit on Lionheart is the Noble Knights. Drawn from the nobility a dozen worlds, the Noble Knights are the charged with the personal defense of Admirals, visiting diplomats, and the Grand Admiral herself. They are charged with interior security of Lionheart, which they are extremely good at. All are armed with swords, shields, and spears. They are clad in elvish chain armor, which is always worn when on duty. Only fighters and fighter mages of levels 5-10 are allowed to serve at Lionheart. They are led by Arms Captain Verraand (NG em F/M 12/15; Str 17, Int 17, Wis 18) himself, the leader of the whole Akh' Imperius.

All of these defenders does not count the crews and marines aboard ships that are also part of the defense of Lionheart. For the most part, these ships are not part of the permanent defense force, thus are not detailed here.

Unknown to most elves aboard Lionheart is a small, extremely powerful defense force that would strike fear into the hearts of any enemy. Seven dragons of various species make Lionheart their home. Some pose as elvish admirals, using their shape shifting abilities, and have considerable political influence. Others have come to join with the elves in the defense of elvish worlds, using their powers to aid the elves wherever they can. One has come seeking knowledge, and sees the library of Lionheart as the best place to acquire that knowledge. All dragons living on Lionheart answer directly to the Grand Admiral, and follow her orders without question. They are her secret weapon in the event that there is a political coup in the station (such as the one that destroyed the first Lionheart). Each is detailed in the NPC section below.

### Spirit Warriors
Given the importance of Lionheart as a military outpost and the recent aggressions by the scro-led goblin-kin, Grand Admiral Nuliaque has decided to assign a large squadron of spirit warriors to the defenses of the base. A number of these warriors have been taken from hidden bases throughout the spheres, while others were assigned to Lionheart after they escaped the fall of such worlds as Lar and Arborianna. The spirit warriors are all under the direct command of Arms Captain Verraand, who is currently buried in paperwork as he tries to restructure the chain of command for the Akh' Imprius to accommodate the new recruits. He has put Captain Evlian Ilkirad (NG em F9/W8) in charge of the spirit warrior squadron, but that position is tentative at this time. If Captain Ilkirad proves to be an incapable leader, or should a better leader present himself or herself from the ranks of the spirit warriors, Arms Captain Verraand would be willing to replace the Captain.

At the present time, the number of spirit warriors is a mere ten warriors and a pair of zwarths, each with a crew of six elves. Hangers for the spirit warriors are under construction and teams of elvish laborers are working hard to convert unused barracks and cargo bays into hangers. The new spirit warrior hanger will be located between Docks B & C, on the opposite side of the station from the defensive hanger. This was a strategic decision on the part of the Arms Captain, as he did not want to cluster too much of the defenses in one location. When completed, the hanger will be spacious enough to support thirty warriors and five zwarths. Grand Admiral Nuliaque hopes to have a force this large based on Lionheart by the end of the next year or the beginning of the year after that. The warriors, when inactive, will "sleep" in glassteel tubes lining the walls which will be filled with magical gases that will keep the spirit warriors healthy. The zwarths will be docked in a pentagram-like setup.

### The Lionheart Fleet
To further protect Lionheart against attacks, a number of elvish ships have been assigned to defend the station. These ships' only duty is to patrol the space about Lionheart and remain at the beck and call of the Grand Admiral. This fleet consist of two armadas, eight men-o-war, twelve cutters, two battle dolphins, a trio of hammerships, and twenty flitters. These ships can be found anywhere within a single day's travel of Lionheart. Lionheart itself is the base of thirty one battle-rigged flitters, six dragonflies, and three dasmelflies. The dragonflies are used in hauling cargo, but could be pressed into service if the need arose.

## Places

[More places](http://www.spelljammer.org/worlds/locs/Lionheart/Lionheart4.html)

### Tower of the Grand Admiral
The tallest and grandest tower in all of Lionheart is that of the Grand Admiral. This opulent tower rises over 150' above the main deck and 50 feet above the protective wall. The slender tower has deceptively thick walls, which are fifteen feet thick at the base. Surrounding the tower walls is an invisible wall of force that almost completely encase the tower with the exception of doors and windows. The wall of force protects the whole tower from any physical attack, including those fired from siege weapons. Only powerful magic can hope to penetrate the wall of force and make attacks upon the tower itself.

The tower itself is a circular spire 50 feet across at its base and taper inward as it rises into the night sky. The walls are made of a green-veined white marble that is more durable than granite, but smooth as glass. There is but a single entrance at the base, barred by twin doors of mithral. These doors are guarded at all times by a pair of Noble Knights armed with halberds, longswords, and crossbows. If they come under attack, they raise an alarm, warning the guards inside. There is a noticeable absence of windows on the tower walls; the only windows to be found are those on the top level (the office of the Grand Admiral). The tower is capped by a pointed roof of mithral sheets. In the starlight skies of many spheres, the tower is quite breathtakingly beautiful and would inspire many artists if it were not for security concerns.

The first two levels of the tower are reserved as guard stations. Twelve Noble Knights are stationed on these two levels at all time. They check to make sure any who wants to see the Grand Admiral has an appointment. Those who do not are turned away and told to make one. They have the power to arrest anyone that who becomes belligerent or dangerous. If there is trouble, the will call upon their backup, two silver metal golems which wait in two shadowy alcoves. All are fiercely loyal to the Grand Admiral and can never be bribed, frightened off, or turned against her.

The third level is almost entirely open space. Portraits and statues of past Grand Admirals decorate this level. A vast variety of art styles are depicted in each piece, all of which carefully capture the likeness of the individual in question. Each is a masterpiece that could fetch thousands, if not millions, of gold pieces on the open market.

The fourth and fifth levels are the Grand Admiral's private collection of art pieces. Many are mementos from the Grand Admiral's earlier life as an adventurer. Most are pieces given to her by artists for various reasons, from lovesick painters to grateful woodcarvers. Each has been given a place of honor in her private collection, no matter how valueless the piece.

The sixth and seventh levels is the private library of the Grand Admiral. Many of the books found in this private library are unique, including many journals of past Grand Admirals. Of special importance are tomes that deal with the command and logistics of running the vast Elvish Fleet. Said tomes would be priceless in the hands of the enemies of the elves. At least one shelf has a number of spell tomes that were penned by those past Grand Admirals that were mages; some of the spells in those tomes are unique. Being given the right to read books from this library is considered a tremendous honor to any elf.

The next three levels, eighth through tenth, are devoted to the Grand Admiral's living quarters. Normally, these quarters are locked (the Grand Admiral is the only one with the key), and the stairs spiral up past them.

The last two levels are reserved for the office of the Grand Admiral and her aides. The eleventh level holds four individual offices, each for one of her most trusted aides. A great deal of the paper work is done by those four elves, who only pass on the most important papers to their superior.

The office of the Grand Admiral herself is eloquent and beautiful. The room is virtually bare except for her desk, chair, and two chairs before the desk. The walls are pierced by twelve large windows, equally spaced along the wall. The spaces between the windows are covered in tapestries depicting the greatest victories the Fleet ever had. The floor is completely covered by a thick rug with the emblem of the Fleet in the center of it. One immediately is given a sense of elvish power and might upon entering, which the Grand Admiral fully uses when meeting with dignitaries. The full personal defenses of the Grand Admiral are known only to herself, but undoubtedly include several fully charged wands, magical weapons, potions, and other magical items.

### Council of Admirals
A large, round tower, the Council of Admirals is one of the more important buildings of Lionheart. The crystalline tower houses the offices of the seven admirals that are permanently stationed at Lionheart. It also doubles as a council chamber for the times when all the admirals in the Fleet are called (usually one a century or so). Six more offices are also found in the Council Tower, for use by any visiting admiral. Political intrigue and maneuvers are extremely common.

> ***(Ed. Notes) This is where we stand now.***

### Elven Council of Worlds
The second tallest building in Lionheart, the Elvish Council of Worlds is a great tower with a coin-shaped top. This massive tower rises over 145 feet into the night sky; the top is supported by a trio of stone support pillars. Access to the Council Chamber itself (which takes up the entire top) is gained through a magical disc that lifts the elf in question 90 feet into the air and into the chamber. Inside, the Chamber is magically enchanted to span over 300 feet across despite the fact that it appears to have a diameter of only 60 feet or so. Within these hallowed halls elvish ambassadors argue, debate, and fight over issues affecting the elvish presence in space. For the most part, unless an elvish nation has a vested interest in space (such as those nations found on asteroids or starfly plants), they do not normally send an ambassador. Only when a threat is so great that it endangers the majority of elvish nations do all nations send ambassadors. Virtually every elvish nation has a special ambassador trained for such an emergency.

For the most part, the elvish ambassadors argue over issues of trade agreements, local wars, and like issues. At any one time, the Council Chamber is but a fifth filled with elvish ambassadors arguing and making deals. Since elves have a compulsive need to argue down to the finest details, any issue brought before them will likely take months, if not years, to be resolved. Elvish lobbyists are among the most patient in the whole of Known Space.

## People

[More People](http://www.spelljammer.org/worlds/locs/Lionheart/Lionheart5.html)

### Grand Admiral Lylanna Nuliaque "Daughter of the Wolf, Mistress of the Forgotten Hope"
*LG grey elf female R12 Grand Admiral of the Elvish Imperial Fleet*

Grand Admiral Lylanna is a middle-aged elf and a career officer. She is a grey elf from the world of Ladethvanna "Forest of Eternal Night," a small elvish colony in a distant sphere. Lylanna is quite small, even for an elf. She only stands 4' 11" tall, and weighs a meek 87 lbs. Her silver curls are cut pageboy style, still thick, lustrous, and match her steel gray eyes. Lylanna's face is small and triangular, defined by tiny worry lines about her eyes. Her appearance is deceptive; despite her size, she is extremely imposing and confident. She is very proud and carries herself with an air of dignity and power.

Lylanna's father was a Fleet captain, and her older brother was a battle mage aboard the armada "Arrow of Justice." Even so, Lylanna was reluctant to join. Instead, she joined an adventuring band of elves that roved the world of her birth. For two decades Lylanna and her fellow adventurers explored many forgotten ruins and temples. Eventually, they took to the stars in a stolen neogi spelljammer and continued their adventures for another decade. It was to be their undoing when, while following a rumor to a great treasure, they discovered something. Whatever they encountered, it must have been incredible, for only Lylanna returned. After that adventure, she became very serious and took her new name, Nuliaque. She joined the Fleet and rapidly rose through the ranks, gaining her admiral commission in a mere four decades. Grand Admiral Yelzul, impressed with the young woman's determination, skill, and leadership, appointed her as his successor when he retired a century ago. Despite cries of outrage from some older admirals, Nuliaque had enough support with the Elvish Council and the younger admirals that her promotion was assured. Since that time she has ruled with a fair and even hand, and even her most vocal opponents must concede that she is an excellent leader.

Since taking the position of Grand Admiral, Lylanna has worked to halt the encroachment of other races into traditional elvish territories through trade embargoes, making powerful alliances, and the occasional use of force. Because of her efforts, at least two powerful dwarvish kingdoms have formally allied themselves with the Elvish Nation as have a human nation. Though it cost the Fleet greatly in trade concessions, these allies have proven themselves extremely valuable when the Second Unhuman War broke out. They helped stop the advance of the scro in at least two spheres and did much to turn back an attack in Twilitespace.

Though Lylanna has not been in personal combat in over a century, her experience from hundreds of skirmishes, fights, and battles has not faded. Any opponent would find her a cagey warrior and an expert swordswoman. She wields Ark-Flame, a sentient longsword +4, into battle. Ark-Flame has the abilities of a 12th level Invoker, able to cast spells with a word. Spells cast by Ark-Flame return to it at the rate of 1 per turn per spell level (thus a 3rd level spell takes 3 turns to return after being cast). In addition, Lylanna has numerous magical items at her disposal, including an artifact or two.

### Sar'Casualik
*LG "gold elf" (gold dragon) male W18 Chief High Mage of Lionheart*

Sar'Casualik looks every bit the gold elvish High Magi. He stands an imposing 6' tall (a head over most other elves) and rarely smiles. He has deep golden hair and green eyes flecked with gold. His stare is quite intimidating, and any that know him would do his bidding readily rather than face his wrath.

As Chief High Mage, Sar'Casualik's duties are many. He must advise the Grand Admiral on all matters magical, see to the maintenance of the many magical defenses, and work to repair any damage done to the Mythal surrounding the base. He is quite skilled as a High Magi, and is able to tap into that magic better than every other elf on the station. He staff of office is a mithral rod with a golden dragon snaking about it. It has the powers of a Staff of Striking and a Staff of Magi.

Sar'Casualik is not what he appears. His true form is that of an ancient gold dragon. How he gained the ability to cast high magic is unknown, but is somehow connected to Corellon himself. In any case, Sar'Casualik, who has no dragonic name he shares, is able to cast spells as if he were a High Magi of 18th level. He leads the High Magi of Lionheart as the head of the Circle and any spell cast by a circle he participates in gains in power (by how much is left up to the DM). He gets along with most of the other dragons on Lionheart except Azure; he thinks of her as a tramp but does not dislike her enough so to move against her.

### Maivin and Raererl "Storm Slayer" and "Unicorn of Winter"
*CG high elf male and female F12/W12 F11/W12 Grand Admiral's Bodyguards*

Maivin and Raererl are a rarity among elves: twins. They have lived much of their lives together, due to the actions of the Fleet. They were orphaned early in their childhood by a rampaging horde of orcs, and rescued by the Fleet. At the age of 12, they were introduced into a secret program run by the Fleet. This program's purpose was to train future bodyguards for the Grand Admiral and his or her staff. Until they hit the age of maturity, Maivin and Raererl were trained in the arts of war and magic. They became expert bladesingers, combining powerful magic with the art of the blade. Now well seasoned, the pair have served as twin bodyguards for the last two centuries. Unless spoken to, they are utterly silent. In battle, it seems as if they can anticipate each other's moves and as a team, virtually unbeatable.

Maivin has chosen the longsword as his primary weapon and the lion as his totem animal. Raererl's choice of weapon is a mithral spear and the unicorn as her totem animal. Both have Bracers of AC 2, Broaches of Shielding, and both of their weapons are enchanted to have a bonus of +4 to hit and damage. They know many offensive spells and a number of defensive ones, which they will use to the fullest to defend their charge. They are willing to die in the defense of the Grand Admiral, and wouldn't hesitate to sacrifice themselves if it saved the Grand Admiral's life.

### Seljuril
*LG gold elf female W25 Lady of Lionheart*

Seljuril is, officially, dead. However, her "death" was not so much as death as apotheoses. Seljuril became the mythal surrounding Lionheart, given almost limitless energy by the elvish gods. Her physical form was completely consumed by the process, but her mental capacities and her personality remained intact. She is literally part of Lionheart now, able to see and hear everything that goes on in the station. She works against corruption in the Fleet by leaving clues and evidence that cause the offending elf to straighten up or be arrested. She is fair, and is more than willing to give elves with potential a second or even a third chance. Those that somehow anger her (such as plotting to assassinate the Grand Admiral) are never seen again.

Though Seljuril's physical form is forever gone, she can still use the mythal to magically project her image anywhere in the station. Such a magical projection has all the powers of a ghost, but the aging power of her ghost works only when she wants it to work. In addition, her ghostly projection can use magic as a 25th level caster, including High Magic spells. Since the projection is literally part of the mythal, the only way to destroy it forever is to destroy the mythal. No magical spell will affect the ghost; such spells are harmlessly absorbed by the mythal. Magical weapons of +3 value or better cause normal damage. If 100 hit points of damage are dealt to the ghost, it dissipates for one day. At the end of that day, Seljuril has regained enough power to project another ghost and will seek out those who destroyed her projection.

## Artifacts

### Lion's Heart
The Lion's Heart is a great multi-faceted gemstone over five feet across. It appears to be made of crimson-hued diamond, but is far harder than any known substance. The overall shape is circular, but it seems to pulse with a life all its own. The Heart emits a low, reddish glow and has a low, deep rhythmic sound resounding from it, as if it were a living, beating heart.

> ***(Ed. Notes) It is a massive [Spirit Stone](https://warhammer40k.fandom.com/wiki/Spirit_Stone) and the primary terminal of the Mythal/Infinity Circuit.***

#### History
For thousands of years, the Elvish Imperial Fleet has protected the space lanes for elvish ships and traders. It has been the heart of elvish civilization in wildspace, the glue that has held elves across a hundred world together. The Lion's Heart is the heart of the Fleet, the glue that holds hundreds of thousands of elves and thousands of ships together in a single, cohesive Fleet.

[More history . . .](http://www.spelljammer.org/worlds/locs/Lionheart/Lionheart6.htm)

#### Campaign Use
The Heart is currently found in the bowels of Lionheart, protected by the will of the Grand Admiral. She has not displayed the Heart in years, but it remains at her call. She brings it out for special occasions, summoning by silent will. It is cared for by three balenorn that reside in the crypts at the center of Lionheart, who know its full history and pay it great honor. Unless a character is destined to become Corellon's champion and the next Grand Admiral, it is unlikely they will encounter the Heart. In any case, the Heart is a very power artifact to introduce in any campaign.

#### Powers
* ##### Constant
    - The Heart is imbued with the power of Arvandor, and as such projects an aura of elvish magic around it. This aura of power enables elves to use High Magic at will, without the normal penalties of casting such magic. This power allows elves to use High Magic even in spheres where such magic is normally prohibited, at least in the area of one mile around the artifact.

    > ***(Ed. Notes) Guess who is an Elven High Magic practitioner, and will go to great lengths to protect such an artifact.**

* ##### Invoked
    - The heart can be used by the Grand Admiral to cast any High Magic spell at will. It also makes the casting of High Magic rituals easier. It provides Corellon's champion will protect the Grand Admiral if attacked, enshrouding him or her with magical protection that grants an AC -8 (not augmented by magical armor, other protective magics, or high dexterity) and 50% magic resistance. Further, spells that are blocked by the magic resistance are actually absorbed and become available to the Grand Admiral for use against his or her foes!

    - Finally, when the Grand Admiral dies or retires, the Heart returns to Arvandor and Corellon's throne, where it remains for seven days during which he chooses a new champion. Sometimes, this champion will be the chosen successor of the old Grand Admiral, but at others it is someone completely different.

* ##### Curse
    - When Hothagar died, part of his spirit entered the Heart. As a result, the Heart became sentient and will only serve a noble heart. It helps in the choosing process by informing Corellon if the candidate's heart is noble or not. If a Grand Admiral becomes hopelessly corrupt, the Heart vanishes and the Mandate of Arvandor is revoked.

    > ***(Ed. Notes) Dendar might be powerfull corrupting but so is the High Admiral. She still lingers in there, fighting a losing battle. Harloc doesn't plan to let her down.***

#### Suggested Means of Destruction
- The fire of the Heart dies when the last elf in the Known Spheres dies.
- The Heart cracks and is destroyed if Corellon is ever corrupted to evil.
- The Heart looses all of its power if Arvandor is destroyed.

### Staff of Celestian
A long staff of smoky black crystal, the Staff of Celestian is capped by a smooth, circular crystal that is constantly changing colors. The bottom of the staff is tapered and ends in a butt of mithral. Tiny motes of lights glow within the staff, constantly shifting and changing position, size, and color. It is trimmed with gold and platinum.

#### History
The Staff was carried by Celestian centuries ago when he departed Oerth to travel among the stars. The Staff was his guide in those early days, lighting his way and serving as the journal of his travels. Many wonderful tales and illusions that describe a countless number of spheres. The staff has also been taken by Celestian into the Astral plane, the inner planes, and even the outer planes.

[More history . . .](http://www.spelljammer.org/worlds/locs/Lionheart/Lionheart6.htm)

#### Campain Use
The Staff is in possession of the Grand Admiral, and the characters are unlikely to encounter it unless they meet that individual. It will probably be nothing more than dressing for the Grand Admiral's office, but if battle breaks out between a fleet and Lionheart, they are likely to witness its effects. It proves power for Lionheart to act as a spelljammer and a mammoth of a battleship

#### Powers
* ##### Invoked
    - The Staff served as Celestian's journal during much of his travels, and as such, has an almost infinite amount of information stored within it. It has the ability to project illusions of thousands of worlds, planes, and other wonders of the multiverse. Most of the illusions will be undoubtedly unknown to the user, and can be as wondrous or terrifying as the DM's imagination dictates.

    - The most powerful function of the Staff is to act as an artifurnace, giving spelljamming power to objects smaller than small moons. The Staff can move any object up to a mile across with a ship's rating of 5. However, it cannot provide spelljamming speeds to any objects over 1000 tons in size. The object powered by the Staff will never have a maneuver class of less than E.

    - Finally, the Staff can open a portal to the Astral Plane. This portal can be as large as the user dictates, with a practical maximum size of 1000' in diameter. The Staff will provide the user protection from the ill effects of that plane, but not to anyone else. Those that join the user in the Astral Plane are on their own in terms of survival. This power cannot be accessed from the Phlogiston.

* ##### Curse
    - When a person first grips the Staff, he must first make a save vs. spell with a -4 penalty. If this save fails, the user is overwhelmed by the alien knowledge contained within the Staff and is driven insane. Only a full wish, properly worded, will restore the user to sanity. Whenever knowledge is extracted from the Staff, there is always a 10% non-cumulative chance that the images it projects will cause another save vs. spell with a -4 penalty for insanity.

#### Suggested Means of Destruction
- The Staff will break if Celestian and his brother, Fharlanghn ever come to blows.
- The Staff can be broken under the heel of a Star beast.
- If every star in Greyspace is extinguished, the Staff losses all of its power.

## Other Considerations

### Lionheart: the Battleship
The Staff of Celestan is a powerful magical artifact. In addition to its numerous powers involving planar travel, the Staff can also act as a helm. It is powerful enough to move Lionheart as a great spelljammer, but only at tactical speeds. The Staff cannot move Lionheart at spelljamming speed. When moving at tactical, Lionheart has a Ship's Rating of 5 and has a Maneuver Rating of F. While the Grand Admiral could conceivably move the station about in this fashion, she will only use this power when the station is under attack. Combined with attacks from her defensive fleet, Lionheart is a deadly opponent in battle.

### Other Lionheart-Type Stations
The greatest secret that the Elvish Fleet has is that Lionheart is not unique. In fact, they have another station of similar size and magical nature, Falconheart, and are in the process of constructing yet a third station. Both of the alternate stations fulfill different roles than Lionheart, however. Falconheart is the new Elvish Academy, where young recruits are sent for training. It has extensive facilities that include dozens of classrooms, gyms, obstacle courses, and the like. While only two centuries old, it is rapidly gaining a reputation as having the best teachers and tutors the elves have to offer. Most of the younger high ranking officers gain their training at Falconheart.

The other base, currently under construction, is to be the Fleet's main shipyard. When completed, the elves expect to be able to construct several ships at a time there, in utter secrecy. The elves are still gathering the resources for it, but they do have plans for it complete and expect to have it up and running in less than a year. It remains unnamed.

## Bibliography

- [Lionheart](http://www.spelljammer.org/worlds/locs/Lionheart/Lionheart.html)
- [Craftworlds](https://warhammer40k.fandom.com/wiki/Craftworld)
- [Spirit Stones](https://warhammer40k.fandom.com/wiki/Spirit_Stone)
- [Infinity Circuit](https://warhammer40k.fandom.com/wiki/Infinity_Circuit)
- [Webway](https://warhammer40k.fandom.com/wiki/Webway)

- [Lionheart](http://www.spelljammer.org/worlds/locs/Lionheart/Lionheart.html)
- [Craftworlds](https://warhammer40k.fandom.com/wiki/Craftworld)
- [Spirit Stones](https://warhammer40k.fandom.com/wiki/Spirit_Stone)
- [Infinity Circuit](https://warhammer40k.fandom.com/wiki/Infinity_Circuit)
- [Webway](https://warhammer40k.fandom.com/wiki/Webway)